# Declarative

We will be storing our configuraton in git (GitOps).

## Command

``` code
kubectl apply -f filename.yml 
```

We are going to skip **kubectl create**, **kubectl replace** and **kubectl edit**.  
It is nolonger a good way to manage infrastructure.

## Using kubectl apply

- create / update esources in a file
  
  ``` code
  kubectl apply -f myfile.yml
  ```

- create / update a whole directory of yml
  
  ``` code
  kubectl apply -f /myyaml
  ```

- create / update from a URL
  
  ``` code
  kubectl apply -f https:///myyaml.com/pod.yml
  ```

- **Be careful**, lets look at it first (browser or curl).

  ``` code
  curl -L https:///myyaml.com/pod.yml
  ```

## Kubernetes Configuration YAML

- Kubernetes Configuration File (YAML or JSON)
- Each file contains one or more manifests
- Each manifest escribes an API object (deployment, job, secret)
- Each manifest needs four parts (root key:values in the file)
  1. apiVersion:
  2. kind
  3. metadata
  4. spec

## Building your yaml files

1. kind: We can get a list of resources the cluster supports

    ``` code
    kubectl api-resources
    ```

2. Notice some resources have multiple API's (old vs new)
3. apiVersion: we can get api versions the cluster supports
   
   ``` code
    kubectl api-versions
    ```

4. metadata: only name is required
5. spec: where all the action is at

## Building your yaml spec

1. We can get all the keys each kind supports
   
   ``` code
    kubectl explain services --recursive
    ```

2. Oh boy! Lets slow down
   
    ``` code
    kubectl explain services.spec
    ```

3. We can walk down the spec this way
   
    ``` code
    kubectl explain services.spec.type
    ```

4. spec: can have sub spec: of other resources
    
    ``` code
    kubectl explain deployment.spec.template.spec.volumes.nfs.server
    ```

5. We can also use docs
   http://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/#api-reference

## Dry Runs With Apply YAML

1. New stuff, not out of beta yet (1.15)
2. Dry-run  create (client side only) 
   
   ``` code
   kubectl apply -f app.yml --dry-run
   ```

3. Dry-run  create/update on server
   
   ``` code
   kubectl apply -f app.yml --server-dry-run
   ```

4. See a diff visually
   
   ``` code
   kubectl diff -f app.yml
   ```

## Labels and Selectors

1. Labels oes under **metadata**: in your YAML.
2. Simple list of **key:value** for dentifying your resource later by  
   selecting, grouping or filtering for it.
3. Common xamples include tier: frontend, app:api, env:prod, customer: acme.co.
4. Not meant to hold complex, large or non-identifying info which is what  
   **annotations** are for.
5. filter a get command.
6. 
   ``` code
   kubectl get pods -l app=nginx
   ```

7. apply only matching labels
   
   ``` code
   kubectl apply -f myfile.yml -l app=nginx
   ```

## Label Selectors

1. The "glue" elling Services and Deployments hich pods are theirs.
2. Many resources use Label Selectors to "link" resource dependencies.
3. Use Labels and Selectors to control which pods go to which nodes.
4. Taints and Tollerations also controls node placement.

## Storage
1. Storage and statefull workloads are harder in all systems.  
2. Containers makes it both harder and eaier than before.
3. **StatefulSets** is a new resource type, making Pods more sticky.
4. Avoid stateful workloads for the first few deployments until  
   you are good at the basics.
5. Use db as a service when ever you can.

## Volumes

1. Creating and connecting Volumes: 2 types.
2. **Volumes**
   1. Tied to lifecycle of a Pod.
   2. All containers in a Pod can share them.
3. **PersistentVolumes**
   1. Created at cluster level, outlives a Pod.
   2. Seperate config from Pod using it.
   3. Multiple Pods can share them.
4. CSI (Container Storage Interface) plugins are the ew way to connect to storage. 

## Ingress

1. None of our Service types work at OS Layer 7 (HTTP).
2. How do we route outside connections based on hostname or URL?
3. Ingess Controllers (optional) do this with 3rd party proxies.
4. Nginx is popular, but Traefik, HAProxy, f5, Envoy, Iso, etc.
5. Implementation is specific to controller chosen.

## CRD's and the Operator Pattern

1. You can ann 3rd party Resources and Controllers.
2. It estends the K8s API and CLI.
3. A pattern is emerging of using these together.
4. **Operator**: automate deployment and management of complex apps.
   e.g. Databases, monitoring tools, backups and custom ingress.

## Higher Doployment Abstrations

1. All our **kubectl** commands just talk to the K8s API's.
2. K8s has limited build-in templating, versioning, tracking and management of your apps.
3. Helm most popuplar deployment platform.
4. "Compose on kubernetes" comes with Docker Desktop. [Stack Deploy]
5. Most distros support Helm.

## Templating YAML

1. Many tools have templating options.
2. You'll need a solution as the number of nvironments/ apps grow.
3. Helm was "first" winner, but complex.
4. fficial **Kustomize** feature works out of the box.

## Kubernetes Dashboard

1. Not installed by default.
2. Deafault GUI for "upstream" Kubernetes.
   https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard
3. Some distributions have their own (Rancher, Docker Enteprise, OpenShift)

